{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15720\viewh16280\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 A Modest Mouse Album In Which Nobody Works on a Fishing Boat or Wears Plaid\
\
\'93Got A Job With a Reasonable Commute and Good Paycheck\'94\
\'93A War Between Worms and Birds Would Be Ridiculous\'94\
\'93Plaid Is So Last Season\'94\
\'93This Water Is Actually Very Warm and a Pleasant Turquoise Color\'94\
\'93I\'92ve Stopped Using Plastic and Styrofoam Because of Global Warming and You Should Too\'94\
\'93I Broke My Guitar but This Song Sounds Good A Capella\'94\
\'93There Are Only Affordable Cars Like Corollas and Accords In This Funeral Procession\'94\
\'93Would You Believe I\'92ve Never Been To Florida?\'94\
\'93I Don\'92t Know Anybody Who Has an Interesting Nickname\'94\
\'93I\'92ll Admit, This Car Is Probably Not Comfortable Enough for a Road Trip\'94\
\'93Filling Up When the Light Goes On Means You\'92ll Never Run Out of Gas\'94\
\'93All of My Family Members Still Have Their Original Teeth\'94\
\'93The Best Way To Visit Other Planets and Continents Is to Become an Astronaut or Explorer\'94 / \'93You Can\'92t Farm Other Planets\'94\
\'93I Usually Keep My Opinions To Myself\'94\
\'93Was that Sound From a Washing Machine?\'94\
\'93I Don\'92t Even Smoke Socially\'94\
\'93I Get Along Really Well with My Boss\'94\
\
\
A Tori Amos Album Without Fairies, Definitely No Fairies Here\
\
\'93This Is Definitely My Natural Color\'94\
\'93Why Yes, I Played with Dolls as a Child\'94\
\'93Playing the Piano Is a Perfectly Reasonable Career Choice\'94\
\'93Boys On The Left, Girls On the Right \'96\'a0Oh Heck, Everybody Just Blend Together\'94\
\'93I\'92m Indifferent to Trent Reznor Now\'94\
\'93I See You Tweeting, Neil, Answer My DMs Already\'94\
\'93You\'92re Not In There Yet, Keep Trying\'94\
\'93I Speak Up At Appropriate Times\'94\
\'93A Religious Upbringing Never Goes Wrong\'94\
\'93I Ended Up Learning to Read Very Well, Thank You\'94\
\
\'93I Just Stayed in Borneo, Why Not?\'94\
\'93Boys: Not So Bad, I Guess\'94\
\'93Not This Time You\'92re Not, Anastasia\'94\
\'93I Got This Clip Thing to Clip My Mittens to My Jacket So I Don\'92t Forget Them\'94\
\'93Girls For Pele \'96 Like Girls Who Are Pro-Pele, Not Girls Being Sacrificed to a Goddess\'94\
\'93Cornflakes Aren\'92t So Bad After All\'94 \
\
\

\b Every Light in the House Is On\
\

\b0 Observation changes things. When observing one thing, you can\'92t know others as well. Like Heisenberg said, about where things are versus where they\'92re going. And when you are watched, you act differently. That is, if you know about it. But when you are watching, does it change you?\
\
I don\'92t know if she\'92s been watching, but I say to myself that I hope she is. I don\'92t know if that\'92s really true, though. Do I actually wish for her to be outside, idling her car or turning off the engine, keeping the key twisted to listen to the radio or some music or the last minutes of a podcast \'96\'a0learning something about the brain, perhaps, how we fool ourselves into thinking that more will make us happier or that having a back-up plan is wise when, really, it might just mean we don\'92t pursue the first plan? Or do I gain more self-righteous self-satisfaction from the idea that she\'92s moved on, moving on, in her house with another guy or perfecting her online dating profile, finding the right mix of posed and candid shots, answering just enough profile questions, wondering if introducing one small typo will make her seem spontaneous or sloppy?\
\
Headline: Lois Looking for Her Superman\
\
That was me, once. Superman. Though that wasn\'92t her headline then \'96\'a0instead, it was Mean Girls Finish First. An off-putting one, potentially, but open: a nod to her love of the movie and to her me-first approach to getting off. I, caped, swooping, or thinking of myself as such, came in and rescued her from \'96 what? Her own life? Loneliness? Not having someone to see stupid action movies with? \
\
No cape anymore.\
\
I wonder sometimes if, all the lights on, she sees me \'96\'a0this assumes she is out there, or has ever been, has ever driven past my house late at night when I put the lights on blazing, not so it looks like someone is home or lots of people around \'96 this is counterproductive, in the end, because more lights just reveal more absence: the fact that I\'92m the only one there, no Home Alone shadow people, just me home 
\i alone
\i0  \'96 but so she can see me, alone, wandering my own house lost without her.\
\
A cheesy phrase, to be sure, but it is how I feel. I look in the bathroom mirror expecting to see her face reflected, tooth-brushing, always brushing first and then flossing \'96 the opposite of how I\'92d been trained. Or just making faces when I shaved, trying to distract me enough to make me laugh but not so much that I\'92d slip and draw blood, although that did happen once. Or expecting to see her at the kitchen table, stirring coffee, reading newspapers, texting friends. Even her absent presence, absorbed in scrolling a screen, felt very 
\i there 
\i0 to me \'96 even when she was not fully present, it was presence enough. Or jutting an elbow or hand against the hallway wall, balancing to take off her shoes or put them on \'96\'a0I expect to see this every time I turn that corner despite the fact that she hasn\'92t come or gone for weeks but just is gone.\
\
Now, just me, home alone.\
\
I don\'92t know why I started the lights thing. Keeping them on all the time. Was it to make me feel like she was there, in another room, reading or writing or singing? Was it so I could purify the house with light, shining into every corner the new knowledge she wouldn\'92t be here anymore? Expelling her ghost or shadow or whatever the edges of her I fill with expectation for? Her knees on the armrest (how\'92d she get them up there, comfortably?), her heel up against the kitchen wall (hamstring stretch), her head on my shoulder, hair falling down. \
\
Maybe I hope enough light will finally catch it \'96 the shadows of her ghosts, living uncertainly in some possible position of an atom. She was here so many times, her position and motion fully known to me, that it seems there should be a subatomic remnant, a quantum trace. I spent one afternoon floating my hands through the house to see if I could feel \'96\'a0anything, really \'96 a desperate echo of tai chi, and found nothing.\
\
Maybe it\'92s the lights because they switch. On, off. Here, not. Instead of all that well lit uncertainty.\
\
\
[so shal-low]\
\
}