{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13080\viewh9720\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I\'92m sitting here listening to no one. To you. You\'92re no one. You\'92re me. Me, inside my head, listening to myself. I\'92m saying things I don\'92t know I\'92ll say. I\'92m thinking things I don\'92t know I\'92ll think. Things are happening, unexpectedly, in all ways.\
\
When you walk down a path you can find, all things. The path finds you. Things lead you, to there.\
\
\
When I wake up in the morning, the world is solved for me, neatly organized in grids. The white-outlined panes of my windows divide everything visible neatly: neighbor\'92s house directly opposite, the backyard tree two to the right, the library at the bottom left corner. The library is never at the right, the neighbor\'92s house is never up top, the tree is always where the tree is. \
\
In winter, sometimes, the house is warmer than the outside, so the panes have a little condensation on them in the mornings. Winter mornings, things are a little extra obscured. But when I wipe off the condensation with the hem of my shirt, an easy gesture, everything reemerges right in its paned place. Just so.\
\
But when I go to sleep at night, the panes fall away, kaleidoscoping into nonsense. It\'92s not just that they\'92re no longer visible in the dark, it\'92s that they no longer exist somehow. In my eyes-closed mind on a pillow just feet from the panes, I can\'92t see the grids that neatly assign life. I can\'92t remember how the library fits next to my neighbor\'92s house, or picture how the tree towers over our tiny yard. Everything invisible mushes together, becoming unruly and destroying my sleep.\
\
I never stand up and make progress to the window, feeling each inch of my uncertain feet touch down on the smooth night floor. I never lift the blinds with their loud snap to look and be sure: the house is still there, the library, the tree. Each in its pane. But if I did, I am certain their regimentedness would fade with the day as soon as I set myself back down to sleep, that wild place of darkness with its unrepentant snares, pulling down the elements of the day into their wrongful places each night.\
\
\'97\
\

\b dream snare\

\b0 \
at night, we sing:\
demons we, climbing deep \
inside your mind with bad rhythm \'96 well,\
the rhythm\'92s real good, it\'92s we that\'92s bad, \
our evil feet stomping \
your pretty days to dust.\
\
our feet say, this day\
was nothing special, no.\
your big day, your bright idea,\
are just dull things beneath us,\
faded bricks to dumb to clack\
as we set into our night beats.\
\
as we sing we see you, sleeping not \
because our dark rhythms feed (on) you, because you know\
the dark charade of your life, its lack of clarity and cadence,\
the too-easy way each dying day slips over to another, but for\
our song: the night-kings, sound showing how\
\
you matter, or not.\
\
your dark matter, our black noise\
the incessant \
\
the dark night is not silent or still, it creeps and feeds\
on sleeping souls, drumming their slumber with\
diabolical roilings, the eerie soundtrack of\
midnight hauntings, wee hours filled horribly \
by all-out self-doubt. that\'92s the thin song of strong demons,\
desiccating days\'92 hope in the evening so no one\
aims to see the sun rise, only\
endure the dark.\
\
\'85\
\
in her life, i\'92ll walk my dog thousands of times - \
down the street, around the corner, to this hedge or that.\
where she\'92ll please, where i go, where the both of us\
can manage to shuffle our old feet forward, in some years.\
for now, twice each day she looks at me with bright expectancy\
and i stride downstairs and out expecting dull sameness\'97\
the neighbors on porches, other dogs rumbling, a stray bark or a child\
cleverly pointing out what she is (\'93doggie\'94) and even her coloring (\'93brown\'94).\
\
but often i\'92m surprised by sudden changes in season\'97\
leaves fallen from trees, now starkly bare when seemingly last week\
they flourished in greenness; strange dogs all the time staring us down\
as though we, not they, are newcomers; a constantly shifting time of darkness,\
sometimes overtaking us unexpectedly as we walk, still blocks from home,\
yet find ourselves (or at least i find me) straining to see in a sudden deep twilight,\
a sign that not every day is the same, not every dog is mine, not every me has accepted\
the walk as ritual of sameness, and some force in the universe\
still feeds us novelty, keeping us going twice a day, every day, for a decade.\
\
\'97\
\
the lake\'92s still but it sparkles, a flat gray with ripples, \
easy to see the visual appeal of but impossible to draw, i see\
an art student struggling to shade each wave in charcoal, the smudges never quite clearing\
the surface the way these lake tides really do.\
\
and around, small bushes reaching up with tan-twigged branches, each patterned neatly with\
tiny green leaves, a seeming calico dressing up the lake, everyone very presentable for summer.\
which this is not \'96 it\'92s late fall creeping winter despite the warm wrap of the sun, you can tell by the gold light,\
slanting hard in the afternoon, crushing the lake with a warning of \'93dark soon, but first\'96\'93 the wide sunset,\
pink blue catalyzing purple and orange and all over gold, buying us the value of another day.\
\
times keep changing, we may remain the same or perish, opposite opportunities.\
\
}